# DS-LAB
All practice problems and mandatory questions prescribed for S3 B.tech students in CSL 201  for B.tech(2019 Scheme).





1. Write a program to read two polynomials and store them in an array. Calculate the sum of the
two polynomials and display the first polynomial, second polynomial and the resultant
polynomial.

2. C Write a program to enter two matrices in normal form . Write a function to convert two
matrices to tuple form and display it. Also find the transpose of the two matrices represented
in tuple form and display it. Find the sum of the two matrices in tuple form and display the
sum in tuple form.

3. Write a program to enter two matrices in normal form . Write a function to convert two
matrices to tuple form and display it. Also find the transpose of the two matrices represented
in tuple form and display it. Find the sum of the two matrices in tuple form and display the
sum in tuple form.

4. Implement a circular queue using arrays with the operations:

          4.1.Insert an element to the queue.       
          4.2.Delete an elements from the queue.
          4.3.Display the contents of the queue after each operation.

5. Implement a Queue using arrays with the operations:   
  
        5.1.Insert elements to the Queue.
        5.2.Delete elements from the Queue.
       5.3.Display the contents of the Queue after each operation.
        [-----> queueoperations.c <-----]


6. Implement a Stack using arrays with the operations:   
    
        6.1.Pushing elements to the Stack.
        6.2.Popping elements from the Stack
       6.3.Display the contents of the Stack after each operation.
        [-----> stackoperations.c <-----]


7. Implement a Priority Queue using arrays with the operations:

        7.1.Insert elements to the Priority Queue.
        7.2.Delete elements from the Priority Queue.
        7.3.Display the contents of the Priority Queue after each operation.

8. Implement a Double-Ended Queue (DEQUEUE) with the operations:

        8.1.Insert elements to the Front of the queue.
        8.2.Insert elements to the Rear of the queue
        8.3.Delete elements from the Front of the queue.
        8.4.Delete elements from the Rear of the queue.
        8.5.Display the queue after each operation.

9. Using stack convert an infix expression to a postfix expression and evaluate the postfix
expression.

10. Write a program to convert an infix expression to a prefix expression using stacks.

11. Convert an infix expression to a postfix expression without using a stack

12. Write a menu driven program for performing the following operations on a Linked List:

        12.1.Display
        12.2.Insert at Beginning
        12.3.Insert at End
        12.4.Insert at a specified Position
        12.5.Delete from Beginning
        12.6.Delete from End
        12.7.Delete from a specified Position

13. Implement a stack using linked list with the operations:

        13.1.Push elements to the queue.
        13.2.Pop elements from the queue.
        13.3.Display the queue after each operation.

14. Implement a Queue using linked list with the operations:

        14.1.Insert an elements to the queue.
        14.2.Delete an elements from the queue.
        14.3.Display the queue after each operation.

15. Write a program to reverse the content of queue using stack

16. Write a program to read two polynomials and store them using linked list. Calculate the sum
of the two polynomials and display the first polynomial, second polynomial and the resultant
polynomial.

17. Write a program to read two polynomials and store them using linked list. Find the product
of two polynomials and store the result using linked list. Display the resultant polynomial.

18. Write a program for addition of polynomials containing two variables using linked list.

19. The details of students(number, name, total-mark) are to be stored in a linked list. Write
functions for the following operations:

        19.1.Insert
        19.2.Delete
        19.3.Search
        19.4.Sort on the basis of number
        19.5.Display the resultant list after every operation

20. Create a Doubly Linked List from a string taking each character from the string. Check if the
given string is palindrome in an efficient method.

21. Create a binary tree with the following operations

        21.1.Insert a new node
        21.2.Inorder traversal.
        21.3.Preorder traversal.
        21.4.Postorder traversal.
        21.5.Delete a node.

22. Write a program to create a binary search tree and find the number of leaf nodes

23. Create a binary search tree with the following operations:

        23.1.Insert a new node .
        23.2.Inorder traversal.
        23.3.Preorder traversal.
        23.4.Postorder traversal.
        23.5.Delete a node.

24. Write a program to sort a set of numbers using a binary tree.

25. Represent any given graph and

        25.1.Perform a depth first search .
        25.2.Perform a breadth first search

26. Create a text file containing the name, height, weight of the students in a class. Perform
Quick sort and Merge sort on this data and store the resultant data in two separate files. Also
write the time taken by the two sorting methods into the respective files.
Eg. Sony Mathew 5.5 60
Arun Sajeev 5.7 58
Rajesh Kumar 6.1 70

27. Write a program to sort a set of numbers using Heap sort and find a particular number from
the sorted set using Binary Search.

28. Implement a Hash table using Chaining method. Let the size of hash table be 10 so that the
index varies from 0 to 9.

29. Implement a Hash table that uses Linear Probing for collision resolution
